README.md, before:

# GraphQL-Tutorial

1. The project aims to construct the Graph QL server using `node-js`

2. Query graphQL server from front end made using a `react` app.

3. The GraphQL server is created using `Express`

4. The project overview is like:

![Project Overview](docs/project-overview.png)

5. Install express as

 `npm install express`

 6. Create file called `app.js` in `server` directory. That is the starting point of graphql express server.

 7. Create file called `schema.js` in `schema` directory inside `server` directory. The schema of the queries is defined in it.

 8. The Dummy data in array in `schema.js` can be manipulated by package called `lodash` --> `npm install lodash`

 9. The `resolve()` function gets the data for a given query inside Root Query.

 10. The server can be run using `nodemon` 
        
        `npm install nodemon`

        `nodemon app`
        
The `GraphiQL` runs on the `http://localhost:4000/graphql`
and following query gets the result

```   
{
  author(id: 1){
    name
    age
  }
}
```

 10. Defining the relationship between Objects requires using the Object type as the field in other object i.e. COMPOSITION.
    For e.g. 
    In here the Objects `BookType` and `AuthorType` are linked by defining the respective fields inside of each others definition.
    In the Data ( Arrays ), the `books` contain `authorId` to define linkage.

Commit message:

mongo connection made and book & author models defined

README.md, after:

# GraphQL-Tutorial

1. The project aims to construct the Graph QL server using `node-js`

2. Query graphQL server from front end made using a `react` app.

3. The GraphQL server is created using `Express`

4. The project overview is like:

![Project Overview](docs/project-overview.png)

5. Install express as

 `npm install express`

 6. Create file called `app.js` in `server` directory. That is the starting point of graphql express server.

 7. Create file called `schema.js` in `schema` directory inside `server` directory. The schema of the queries is defined in it.

 8. The Dummy data in array in `schema.js` can be manipulated by package called `lodash` --> `npm install lodash`

 9. The `resolve()` function gets the data for a given query inside Root Query.

 10. The server can be run using `nodemon` 
        
        `npm install nodemon`

        `nodemon app`
        
The `GraphiQL` runs on the `http://localhost:4000/graphql`
and following query gets the result

```   
{
  author(id: 1){
    name
    age
  }
}
```

 11. Defining the relationship between Objects requires using the Object type as the field in other object i.e. COMPOSITION.
    For e.g. 
    In here the Objects `BookType` and `AuthorType` are linked by defining the respective fields inside of each others definition.
    In the Data ( Arrays ), the `books` contain `authorId` to define linkage.

  12. MongoDB database used from https://cloud.mongodb.com/user#/atlas/login

  13. `mongoose` is the npm ORM package to connect to MongoDB and interact with it.
      `npm install mongoose`
  
  14. Once the mongo db connection is made, the way to store data in MongoDB is through creating Object Models of our application.

  15. `server > models` contains the two files -> `book.js` & `author.js` that define the model of data defined inside our database.

  16.
